chore: Loading data from unified GraphQL schema (#798)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/01-get-started/loading-data-from-unified-graphql-schema.mdx

  // core from Remix. In this example, we use it to fetch data from the GraphQL
  // unified API (similar to the one you're used to).
  const app = new FrontCommerceApp(context.frontCommerce);
  const response = await app.graphql.query(FaqEntryQueryDocument, {
    input: { slug },
  });
  if (!response.faqEntry) {
    throw new Response("Question not found", { status: 404 });
  }

  return json({
    faqEntry: response.faqEntry,
  });
};

// The main component is a plain React component that receives
// the data from the loader, using Remix fetching primitives (`useLoaderData`)
// both on the server and on the client.
export default function Component() {
  const { faqEntry } = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();

  return <FaqEntry entry={faqEntry} />;
}

// The route also exports an ErrorBoundary component that is responsible
// for displaying errors. It can be used to display a custom error page.
export const ErrorBoundary = () => {
  const error = useRouteError();

  if (isRouteErrorResponse(error)) {
    return <div>FAQ : question not found</div>;
  }
};
```

This is an example of a route that fetches a question from the GraphQL API and

> renders it using a <FaqDetail /> Page component (that is a plain React

Reviewer: **issue:** the component is interpreted

![2024-01-09_10-15](https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/assets/75968/e23eb35b-02ff-4bfa-8f33-baf5d6c40957)

**suggestion:** 

```suggestion
renders it using a `<FaqDetail />` Page component (that is a plain React
```

---
title: Loading data from unified GraphQL schema
description:

>   Explore the integration of a unified GraphQL schema in a Front-Commerce route
>   using Remix. This guide delves into the practical aspects of querying and

Reviewer: **nitpick:** the sentence isn't very clear that it's about the app's unified schema exposed by FC

**suggestion:**

```suggestion
  Explore how to retrieve dynamic data from your application's unified GraphQL schema in a Front-Commerce route
  using Remix. This guide delves into the practical aspects of querying and
```

  managing data through GraphQL, demonstrating the setup, execution, and
  optimization of data requests. Understand the synergistic relationship between
  Front-Commerce and Remix, with a focus on leveraging GraphQL for efficient
  data handling and page rendering.
sidebar_position: 4
---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## Prerequisites

Before diving into the code, ensure you have the following prerequisites in
place:

- A Front-Commerce project configured and ready to use

> - Basic knowledge of
>   [Remix routes](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/discussion/routes)

Reviewer: **nitpick:** I think it's better to link to our own content explaining the previous steps

**suggestion:** replace the link with our how-to guide explaining routes basics (it itself links to further official / advanced resources)

```suggestion
- Basic knowledge of
  [Remix routes](/docs/3.x/get-started/your-first-route)
```

> - [FAQ GraphQL Module](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/tree/c317ab057ae0927e294a5287eb8e0be73ca7e1fb/skeleton/extensions/faq-demo/graphql)
>   installed and configured

Reviewer: **nitpick:** this is only useful for using the code as is

**suggestion:** 

```suggestion
- [FAQ GraphQL Module](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/tree/c317ab057ae0927e294a5287eb8e0be73ca7e1fb/skeleton/extensions/faq-demo/graphql)
  installed and configured if you want to execute code samples without any changes
```

  // core from Remix. In this example, we use it to fetch data from the GraphQL
  // unified API (similar to the one you're used to).
  const app = new FrontCommerceApp(context.frontCommerce);
  const response = await app.graphql.query(FaqEntryQueryDocument, {
    input: { slug },
  });
  if (!response.faqEntry) {
    throw new Response("Question not found", { status: 404 });
  }

  return json({
    faqEntry: response.faqEntry,
  });
};

// The route exports a `action` function that is responsible
// for handling POST requests. It can be used to handle form
// submissions.
export const action = async ({
  context,
  params,
  request,
}: ActionFunctionArgs) => {
  const { slug } = params;

  const formData = await request.formData();
  const app = new FrontCommerceApp(context.frontCommerce);
  const response = await app.graphql.mutate(VoteIsFaqUsefulDocument, {
    input: {
      slug,
      isFaqUseful: formData.get("isFaqUseful") === "true",
    },
  });
  if (!response.voteIsFaqUseful) {
    throw new Response("Question not found", { status: 404 });
  }

  return json({
    success: response.voteIsFaqUseful?.success ?? false,
  });

> };

Reviewer: **issue:** this is part of the "Loading data" section which is incorrect

**suggestion:** create another "Mutate data" section explaining that same concepts seen for loading data can be used for mutating data

// The main component is a plain React component that receives
// the data from the loader, using Remix fetching primitives (`useLoaderData`)
// both on the server and on the client.
export default function Component() {
  const { faqEntry } = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();

  return <FaqEntry entry={faqEntry} />;
}

// The route also exports an ErrorBoundary component that is responsible
// for displaying errors. It can be used to display a custom error page.
export const ErrorBoundary = () => {
  const error = useRouteError();

  if (isRouteErrorResponse(error)) {
    return <div>FAQ : question not found</div>;
  }
};
```

This is an example of a route that fetches a question from the GraphQL API and
renders it using a <FaqDetail /> Page component (that is a plain React
component). As you can see, all the logic belongs to the route!

## Reference

> As we can see here it's quite simple to create a new route and load data from
> external API's, but this only scratches the surface of what you can do with
> Front-Commerce and Remix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see here retrieving dynamic data from Front-Commerce unified GraphQL schema 
can be done in a natural way from any route. But this only scratches the surface of what you can do with
Front-Commerce and Remix.
```
